articles/TDM/tdm_architecture/03a_task_execution_building_entity_list_on_tasks_LUs.md, before:

# Building Entity Lists on a Task's LUs

The task execution process executes the task's LUs from parent to child. 

Click for more information about the [execution order of hierarchical LUs](/articles/TDM/tdm_overview/03_business_entity_overview.md#task-execution-of-hierarchical-business-entities).

The task execution process builds an entity list for each LU, as described below. Root LUs and Children LUs require different steps:  

## Root LUs

The entity list of the root LUs is based on the task's selection method:

<table width="900pxl">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><strong>Entity Selection Method</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p><strong>Where the Entities are Taken From</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p><strong>Task Types</strong></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Run the task on the list of entities, set in the task itself or in the task overridden execution parameters</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>All task types</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Custom logic</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
  <p>Run the selected <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/11_tdm_implementation_using_generic_flows.md#step-7---optional---build-broadway-flows-for-the-custom-logic--selection-method">Broadway flow</a> to get the entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>All task types</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Select a predefined entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Run the SQL query or the Broadway flow defined in the <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/04_fabric_tdm_library.md#trnmigratelist">trnMigrateList</a> translation object for the LU.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Extract tasks</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Select all entities of the selected version</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Select all entities that are successfully extracted by the selected data version. The entities are selected from TASK_EXECUTION_ENTITIES TDM DB table based on the task_execution_id of the selected data version.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Load data versioning tasks</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Parameters</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Select the entities based on the task's parameters from a <a href="07_tdm_parameters_handling.md">DB view</a>, created in the TDM DB for each BE and source environment combination.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Entity clone</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Create duplications on the target environment of the Entity ID, set in the task. Note that only one LUI is created on the entity ID.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Random selection</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Randomly select the entities from the <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/07_tdm_implementation_parameters_handling.md#tdm-parameter-tables">&lt;LU Name&gt;_&lt;params&gt;</a> table.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Children LUs

The entity list of a child LU must include all IDs related to parent IDs that have been successfully processed by the task execution.

Click for an [execution of hierarchical BE](/articles/TDM/tdm_overview/03_business_entity_overview.md#task-execution-of-hierarchical-business-entities) example.

The generated entity list is based on a JOIN of the [task_execution_entities](02_tdm_database.md#task_execution_entities) and the [TDM relationship tables](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm-relationship-tables):

### Insert without Delete Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and [tdm_lu_type_relation_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_relation_eid) tables:

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_relation_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and t.source_env  = rel.source_env 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name> 
and rel.version_name = <empty string on a regular task and the selected version name on a Data Flux task>;
```



### Delete before Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and TDM relationship tables: [tdm_lu_type_relation_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_relation_eid) and [tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid) to get the children IDs from the source and target environments: 

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_relation_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and t.source_env  = rel.source_env 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name> 
and rel.version_name = <empty string on a regular task and the selected version name on a Data Flux task>
UNION
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and rel.target_env = <target environment name> 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name>; 
```



### Delete Entity without Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and [tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid) to get the target children IDs: 

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and rel.target_env = <target environment name> 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name>; 
```





[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](03_task_execution_processes.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](04_task_execution_overridden_parameters.md)

Commit message:

Add an explanation about the custom logic BF execution.

articles/TDM/tdm_architecture/03a_task_execution_building_entity_list_on_tasks_LUs.md, after:

# Building Entity Lists on a Task's LUs

The task execution process executes the task's LUs from parent to child. 

Click for more information about the [execution order of hierarchical LUs](/articles/TDM/tdm_overview/03_business_entity_overview.md#task-execution-of-hierarchical-business-entities).

The task execution process builds an entity list for each LU, as described below. Root LUs and Children LUs require different steps:  

## Root LUs

The entity list of the root LUs is based on the task's selection method:

<table width="900pxl">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><strong>Entity Selection Method</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p><strong>Where the Entities are Taken From</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p><strong>Task Types</strong></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Run the task on the list of entities, set in the task itself or in the task overridden execution parameters</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>All task types</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Custom logic</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
  <p>Run the selected <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/11_tdm_implementation_using_generic_flows.md#step-7---optional---build-broadway-flows-for-the-custom-logic--selection-method">Broadway flow</a> to get the entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>All task types</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Select a predefined entity list</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Run the SQL query or the Broadway flow defined in the <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/04_fabric_tdm_library.md#trnmigratelist">trnMigrateList</a> translation object for the LU.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Extract tasks</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Select all entities of the selected version</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Select all entities that are successfully extracted by the selected data version. The entities are selected from TASK_EXECUTION_ENTITIES TDM DB table based on the task_execution_id of the selected data version.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Load data versioning tasks</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Parameters</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Select the entities based on the task's parameters from a <a href="07_tdm_parameters_handling.md">DB view</a>, created in the TDM DB for each BE and source environment combination.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Entity clone</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Create duplications on the target environment of the Entity ID, set in the task. Note that only one LUI is created on the entity ID.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="300pxl">
<p><h4>Random selection</p>
</td>
<td width="400pxl">
<p>Randomly select the entities from the <a href="/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/07_tdm_implementation_parameters_handling.md#tdm-parameter-tables">&lt;LU Name&gt;_&lt;params&gt;</a> table.</p>
</td>
<td width="200pxl">
<p>Regular load tasks (Data Versioning is cleared)</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


### Running a Broadway Flow to Get the Task's Entity List

The task's entity list is generated by a Broadway flow in the following scenarios:

- Using the **Custom Logic** selection method.
- Using the  **Select a predefined entity list** selection method on an extract task when the [trnMigrateList object is populated with a Broadway flow](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/11_tdm_implementation_using_generic_flows.md#step-6---optional---get-the-entity-list-for-an-extract-all-task-using-a-broadway-flow).

The Broadway flow gets the entities for the task execution and inserts them into a dedicated Cassandra table in **k2_tdm** keyspace. A separate Cassandra entity table is created on each LU and has the following naming convention: [LU_NAME]_entity_list. This table is used by the task execution process to select the entity list for the task execution.

The **tdmExecuteTask** job runs the **loadLuExternalEntityListTableJob** TDM flow. This flow runs a BATCH job to run the **loadLuExternalEntityListTable** TDM Broadway flow with the following parameters:

- LU_NAME: populated with the task's root LU.
- EXTERNAL_TABLE_FLOW: populated with the name of the Broadway flow that gets the entity list.
- NUM_OF_ENTITIES: populated with the number of entities for the task execution. 

The batch_id is written to the task_execution_list TDM table to enable stopping the task execution during the entity list's Broadway flow execution.

The **loadLuExternalEntityListTable** Broadway flow creates the entity list's Cassandra table if needed and runs the Broadway flow that gets the entity list and populates the Cassandra table.


## Children LUs

The entity list of a child LU must include all IDs related to parent IDs that have been successfully processed by the task execution.

Click for an [execution of hierarchical BE](/articles/TDM/tdm_overview/03_business_entity_overview.md#task-execution-of-hierarchical-business-entities) example.

The generated entity list is based on a JOIN of the [task_execution_entities](02_tdm_database.md#task_execution_entities) and the [TDM relationship tables](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm-relationship-tables):

### Insert without Delete Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and [tdm_lu_type_relation_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_relation_eid) tables:

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_relation_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and t.source_env  = rel.source_env 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name> 
and rel.version_name = <empty string on a regular task and the selected version name on a Data Flux task>;
```



### Delete before Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and TDM relationship tables: [tdm_lu_type_relation_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_relation_eid) and [tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid) to get the children IDs from the source and target environments: 

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_relation_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and t.source_env  = rel.source_env 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name> 
and rel.version_name = <empty string on a regular task and the selected version name on a Data Flux task>
UNION
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and rel.target_env = <target environment name> 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name>; 
```



### Delete Entity without Load Task

Select the children IDs from the task_execution_entities and [tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid](/articles/TDM/tdm_implementation/06_tdm_implementation_support_hierarchy.md#tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid) to get the target children IDs: 

```sql
SELECT rel.lu_type2_eid as child_entity_id
FROM task_execution_entities t, tdm_lu_type_rel_tar_eid rel 
where t.task_execution_id= <task execution id> 
and t.execution_status = 'completed' 
and t.lu_name = <parent lu name> 
and rel.target_env = <target environment name> 
and t.lu_name = rel.lu_type_1 
and t.iid = rel. lu_type1_eid 
and rel.lu_type_2= <child lu name>; 
```





[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](03_task_execution_processes.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](04_task_execution_overridden_parameters.md)
