articles/98_maintenance_and_operational/BI_Installation/01_BI_Installation_on_Linux.md, before:

# Fabric BI Installation on Linux

## Introduction

The Fabric BI application is based on *ExagoBI*. So, the installation of Fabric BI starts from ExagoBI application installation. Once the application is installed, complete the configuration and implementation by following all the steps described in the [Fabric BI User Guide](/articles/38_bi_integration/00_BI_user_guide_overview.md).

## Prerequisites

- OS: Ubuntu Server 20.04, with the latest update.
- Disable SELinux.
- Apache Web server with installed modules:  mono-vbnc, mono-fastcgi-server4, libapache2-mod-fcgid.
- PHP 7.1 engine with the following modules : php-common php-opcache php-mcrypt php-cli php-gd php-curl php-xml
- MONO: ExagoBI is compatible only with the following builds: 5.10.1.20 or 6.8.0.105, in case it's preinstalled, it will need to be removed prior to the ExagoBI installation (a   compatible version will be installed trough the Wizard)
- Hardware - TDB.

[Click for more details about ExagoBI Technical Specifications](https://exagobi.com/support/administrators/installation-and-configuration/technical-specifications/).

## Installation on Linux

1. Download the ExagoBI installer: ExagoInstaller_vXXX.X.X.XXX.tgz from [here](https://download.k2view.com/index.php/s/uqSlM6wJjLUeKlC) into a temporary directory.

2. Download the the K2View additional files and installation script from [here](https://download.k2view.com/index.php/s/Atl1eRGCd82UrzL) into a temporary directory.

3. Open a CLI, move to the temporary directory and extract the downloaded file by running the following command as a user with root permissions:

   ~~~bash
   tar -zxvf K2V_BI_installer.tar.gz
   ~~~

4. Run the installation script with 2 variables: the installation folder **/opt/apps/exago** and the ExagoBI installation file name. 
   In the example, the installation filename is: **ExagoInstaller_v2021.1.15.239**.

   ~~~bash
   ./k2view_BI_install.sh /opt/apps/exago ExagoInstaller_v2021.1.15.239
   ~~~

   **Note**: the Exago installation folder name **/opt/apps/exago** is case-sensitive.
   
5. Continue to other installation and configuration steps described in the [User Guide Installation article](/articles/38_bi_integration/01_Installation.md).

6. In Cloud environments (such as AWS and Azure) or when Local IP is not accessible (behind NAT) the file **WebReportsApi.xml** in the folder **{Exago installation folder}/WebServiceApi/Config** needs to be updated with the correct DNS/IP record.
Update the line:
~~~
webreportsbaseurl>http://{local_IP}/Exago/</webreportsbaseurl> 
~~~
​		and replace the local IP with the current Information.


7. In order to start the environment or after system restart make sure the Apache service and FastCGI service are running.
   **FastCGI** management script is located in the installation folder of Exago (usualy **'/opt/apps/exago'**).
   
   To manage the FastCGI service:
   
   ~~~bash
   ./fastcgi.sh start|stop|restart|status
   ~~~
   
   To manage the Apache service:
   
   ~~~bash
   service apache2 start|stop|restart|status
   ~~~
   

**Directory Locations**

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Application Binaries</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/bin</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">API for Exago Web Service</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/WebServiceApi</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">3rd Party’s Utilities</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Utilities</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">3rd Party’s Drivers</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Drivers</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Personalization Configuration</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Config</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Exago Report Scheduler</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Scheduler</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Fabric BI updates related to https

articles/98_maintenance_and_operational/BI_Installation/01_BI_Installation_on_Linux.md, after:

# Fabric BI Installation on Linux

## Introduction

The Fabric BI application is based on *ExagoBI*. So, the installation of Fabric BI starts from ExagoBI application installation. Once the application is installed, complete the configuration and implementation by following all the steps described in the [Fabric BI User Guide](/articles/38_bi_integration/00_BI_user_guide_overview.md).

## Prerequisites

- OS: Ubuntu Server 20.04, with the latest update.
- Disable SELinux.
- Apache Web server with installed modules:  mono-vbnc, mono-fastcgi-server4, libapache2-mod-fcgid.
  - Note that if you need to run Fabric BI in secured environment, Apache must be installed with SSL support and certificate (according to your organization's procedure).

- PHP 7.1 engine with the following modules : php-common php-opcache php-mcrypt php-cli php-gd php-curl php-xml
- MONO: ExagoBI is compatible only with the following builds: 5.10.1.20 or 6.8.0.105, in case it's preinstalled, it will need to be removed prior to the ExagoBI installation (a   compatible version will be installed trough the Wizard)
- Hardware - TDB.

[Click for more details about ExagoBI Technical Specifications](https://exagobi.com/support/administrators/installation-and-configuration/technical-specifications/).

## Installation on Linux

1. Download the ExagoBI installer: ExagoInstaller_vXXX.X.X.XXX.tgz from [here](https://download.k2view.com/index.php/s/uqSlM6wJjLUeKlC) into a temporary directory.

2. Download the the K2View additional files and installation script from [here](https://download.k2view.com/index.php/s/Atl1eRGCd82UrzL) into a temporary directory.

3. Open a CLI, move to the temporary directory and extract the downloaded file by running the following command as a user with root permissions:

   ~~~bash
   tar -zxvf K2V_BI_installer.tar.gz
   ~~~

4. Run the installation script with 2 variables: the installation folder **/opt/apps/exago** and the ExagoBI installation file name. 
   In the example, the installation filename is: **ExagoInstaller_v2021.1.15.239**.

   ~~~bash
   ./k2view_BI_install.sh /opt/apps/exago ExagoInstaller_v2021.1.15.239
   ~~~

   **Note**: the Exago installation folder name **/opt/apps/exago** is case-sensitive.

5. Continue to other installation and configuration steps described in the [User Guide Installation article](/articles/38_bi_integration/01_Installation.md).

6. In Cloud environments (such as AWS and Azure) or when Local IP is not accessible (behind NAT) the file **WebReportsApi.xml** in the folder **{Exago installation folder}/WebServiceApi/Config** needs to be updated with the correct DNS/IP record.
  Update the line:

  ~~~xml
  <webreportsbaseurl>http://{local_IP}/Exago/</webreportsbaseurl> 
  ~~~


​		and replace the **local IP** with the current Information.  

​		Note that if you need to run Fabric BI in secured environment, **http** should be 		replaced by **https** in the above line.


7. In order to start the environment or after system restart make sure the Apache service and FastCGI service are running.
   **FastCGI** management script is located in the installation folder of Exago (usualy **'/opt/apps/exago'**).
   
   To manage the FastCGI service:
   
   ~~~bash
   ./fastcgi.sh start|stop|restart|status
   ~~~
   
   To manage the Apache service:
   
   ~~~bash
   service apache2 start|stop|restart|status
   ~~~
   

**Directory Locations**

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Application Binaries</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/bin</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">API for Exago Web Service</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/WebServiceApi</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">3rd Party’s Utilities</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Utilities</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">3rd Party’s Drivers</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Drivers</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Personalization Configuration</td><td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Config</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Exago Report Scheduler</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">/opt/apps/exago/Scheduler</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
