articles/TDM/tdm_gui/TDM_Task_Execution_Flows_APIs/01c_tdm_load_data_versioning_task_execution_flow.md, before:

# TDM - Load with Data Versioning (Data Flux) Task Flow

Click the blue text to open the articles about the related TDM APIs of each step. 

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_1.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom: 80%;" />](02_get_task_list_API.md)

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_2.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](02_get_task_list_API.md)

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_3.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](03_get_task_details_APIs.md) Send the task_id of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_flow_get_environments.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](08_get_evailable_envs_for_task_execution.md) Send the selected task's attributes.

[<img src="images/task_flow_get_globals.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](09_get_evailable_globals_for_task_execution.md) Send the selected task's LUs.

[<img src="task_set_entity_list_and_reservation_ind" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />]

[<img src="images/task_select_versions.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](12_get_available_data_versions.md) Send the selected task's attributes, and the selected environments and entity list.

[<img src="images/task_validate_version.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](12_get_available_data_versions.md)

[<img src="images/task_get_retention_period.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](10_get_retention_period_for_data_versioning.md) Get retention period for entity reservation.

[<img src="images/task_flow_override_exe_parameters.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](/articles/TDM/tdm_architecture/04_task_execution_overridden_parameters.md#overriding-additional-task-execution-parameters) 

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_4.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](04_execute_task_API.md) Send the task_id and the overridden parameters of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_5.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](05_task_execution_monitoring_API.md) Send the task_id of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_6.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](06_get_task_execution_details_APIs.md) Send the task_execution_id returned by the execute task API.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_7.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](07_get_task_execution_reports_APIs.md) Send the task_execution_id returned by the execute task API.

Commit message:

TDM 7.4- fix the task execution flows

articles/TDM/tdm_gui/TDM_Task_Execution_Flows_APIs/01c_tdm_load_data_versioning_task_execution_flow.md, after:

# TDM - Load with Data Versioning (Data Flux) Task Flow

Click the blue text to open the articles about the related TDM APIs of each step. 

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_1.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom: 80%;" />](02_get_task_list_API.md)

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_2.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](02_get_task_list_API.md)

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_3.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](03_get_task_details_APIs.md) Send the task_id of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_flow_get_environments.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](08_get_evailable_envs_for_task_execution.md) Send the selected task's attributes.

[<img src="images/task_flow_get_globals.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](09_get_evailable_globals_for_task_execution.md) Send the selected task's LUs.

[<img src="images/task_set_entity_list_and_reservation_ind" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />]

[<img src="images/task_validate_entity_list.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](14_task_entities_validation.md) If the task has an entity list, send the provisioning on (target) environment and the entity list 

[<img src="images/task_select_versions.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](12_get_available_data_versions.md) Send the selected task's attributes, and the selected environments and entity list.

[<img src="images/task_validate_version.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](13_data_version_validation.md) Send the task_execution_id of the selected version for validation.

[<img src="images/task_get_retention_period.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](10_get_retention_period_for_data_versioning.md) Get retention period for entity reservation.

[<img src="images/task_flow_override_exe_parameters.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](/articles/TDM/tdm_architecture/04_task_execution_overridden_parameters.md#overriding-additional-task-execution-parameters) 

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_4.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](04_execute_task_API.md) Send the task_id and the overridden parameters of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_5.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](05_task_execution_monitoring_API.md) Send the task_id of the selected task.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_6.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](06_get_task_execution_details_APIs.md) Send the task_execution_id returned by the execute task API.

[<img src="images/task_basic_flow_7.png" alt="drawing" width="200pxl" style="zoom:80%;" />](07_get_task_execution_reports_APIs.md) Send the task_execution_id returned by the execute task API.
