articles/98_maintenance_and_operational/Installations/Linux/01_Fabric_7.xx_Installation_intro.md, before:

# Fabric 7.xx Pre-Installation Steps

## Introduction 

This article describes mandatory steps to be taken for a system setup prior to Fabric/TDM installation; such steps are:

* Hardware setup
* Users creation
* Environment variables setup
* Required packages for Linux RHEL/CentOs 8
* Required firewall ports

Follow the below instructions to prepare Linux environment for Fabric/TDM installation.

## Hardware Requisites 

Minimum hardware for each Linux execution server is as follows:

-   Modern Xeon Processor

-   16 Physical Cores

-   RAM:

    -   For servers that run all components (Fabric, Cassandra & Kafka) - 64GB RAM.

    -   For servers that run a single component (preferred method) - 32GB RAM.

-   Network: Minimum 1G per sec between the nodes and source databases.

-   Storage: The preferred storage is an attached local SSD's in a non-RAID configuration.

> **Note:** If you must use a SAN, it must be flash disc based and in RAID-0.
> **NAS are not certified.**

Operating System: Redhat/CentOS/"Amazon Linux" latest Operating System and above, with the latest patches.

#### File System Requisites

The following File Server volumes must be made available:

-   Volume of 50G /opt/apps/fabric/ will also be used as the home directory for a **fabric** user (owned by the fabric user)

-   Volume of 100G\* **/opt/apps/fabric/storage** (owned by the fabric user)

-   Volume of 50G **/opt/apps/cassandra/** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 2T\* **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/data** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 10% of data volume - **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/hints** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 25% of data volume - **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/commitlog** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 100G\* **/opt/apps/kafka/** (owned by the kafka user)

> **Note:** The file server must provide IOPS of at least 30K read & 10K write.
> The number of servers should be increased based on project scope and data retention requirements.

## OS Preparation

Create mandatory system users via the following commands:

~~~bash
mkdir -p /opt/apps
chmod 755 /opt/apps
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/fabric fabric
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/cassandra cassandra
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/kafka kafka
~~~



Update the OS limits as follows:

~~~bash
echo "root soft    nproc     unlimited" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "cassandra - nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "cassandra - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "fabric - nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "fabric - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka hard nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka soft nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka soft nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
~~~



Update /etc/sysctl.conf:

~~~bash
echo "## Added by K2view" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "vm.max_map_count = 1048575" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "fs.file-max = 1000000" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_time = 60" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_probes = 3" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_intvl = 10" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
sysctl -p
~~~



Add the following packages for RHEL/CentOs 8:

~~~bash
dnf install -y compat-openssl10 readline* python2 glibc-locale-source glibc-langpack-en
ln -s /usr/lib64/libreadline.so /usr/lib64/libreadline.so.6
~~~

> **Note:** Running one of the following commands, would indicate your Linux flavour:
~~~bash
rpm -E %{rhel}
hostnamectl
cat /etc/os-release
~~~

## Firewall Ports 

For a successful operation, the following ports should be open in the internal server firewall, and if required, also in the external firewall: 

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">22</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">SSH, SCP</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7000</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7001</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7199</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9042</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9160</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">3213 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">K2View Fabric</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">9443 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">K2View Fabric (SSL)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">6379</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Redis</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">2181, 2888, 3888</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka Zookeeper</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9093, 9091 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9081</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka JMX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">5124</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">K2View Fabric</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">5432</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">pgsql</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

add new installation procedure
with new setup scripts, unlinked at the momemt

articles/98_maintenance_and_operational/Installations/Linux/01_Fabric_7.xx_Installation_intro.md, after:

# Fabric 7.xx Pre-Installation Steps

## Introduction 

This article describes mandatory steps to be taken for a system setup prior to Fabric/TDM installation; such steps are:

* Hardware setup
* Users creation
* Environment variables setup
* Required packages for Linux RHEL/CentOs 8
* Required firewall ports

Follow the below instructions to prepare Linux environment for Fabric/TDM installation.

## Hardware Requisites 

Minimum hardware for each Linux execution server is as follows:

-   Modern Xeon Processor

-   16 Physical Cores

-   RAM:

    -   For servers that run all components (Fabric, Cassandra & Kafka) - 64GB RAM.

    -   For servers that run a single component (preferred method) - 32GB RAM.

-   Network: Minimum 1G per sec between the nodes and source databases.

-   Storage: The preferred storage is an attached local SSD's in a non-RAID configuration.

> **Note:** If you must use a SAN, it must be flash disc based and in RAID-0.
> **NAS are not certified.**

Operating System: Redhat/CentOS/"Amazon Linux" latest Operating System and above, with the latest patches.

#### File System Requisites

The following File Server volumes must be made available:

-   Volume of 50G /opt/apps/fabric/ will also be used as the home directory for a **fabric** user (owned by the fabric user)

-   Volume of 100G\* **/opt/apps/fabric/storage** (owned by the fabric user)

-   Volume of 50G **/opt/apps/cassandra/** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 2T\* **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/data** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 10% of data volume - **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/hints** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 25% of data volume - **/opt/apps/cassandra/storage/commitlog** (owned by the cassandra user)

-   Volume of 100G\* **/opt/apps/kafka/** (owned by the kafka user)

> **Note:** The file server must provide IOPS of at least 30K read & 10K write.
> The number of servers should be increased based on project scope and data retention requirements.

## OS Preparation

Create mandatory system users via the following commands:

On All servers

~~~bash
mkdir -p /opt/apps
chmod 755 /opt/apps
~~~

On each server, depends on the service you wish to install, run the approprient useradd command.
(on single host setup, run all commands on the same server)

~~~bash
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/fabric  -s /bin/bash fabric
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/cassandra  -s /bin/bash cassandra
useradd -m -d /opt/apps/kafka  -s /bin/bash kafka
~~~



Update the OS limits as follows:

~~~bash
echo "root soft    nproc     unlimited" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "cassandra - nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "cassandra - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "fabric - nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "fabric - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka hard nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka soft nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka soft nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
echo "kafka - nproc 50000" >> /etc/security/limits.conf
~~~



Update /etc/sysctl.conf:

~~~bash
echo "## Added by K2view" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "vm.max_map_count = 1048575" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "fs.file-max = 1000000" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_time = 60" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_probes = 3" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_intvl = 10" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
sysctl -p
~~~



On RHEL/CentOs 8 server **only** Add the following packages:

~~~bash
dnf install -y compat-openssl10 readline* python2 glibc-locale-source glibc-langpack-en
ln -s /usr/lib64/libreadline.so /usr/lib64/libreadline.so.6
~~~

> **Note:** Running one of the following commands, would indicate your Linux flavour:
~~~bash
rpm -E %{rhel}
hostnamectl
cat /etc/os-release
~~~

## Firewall Ports 

For a successful operation, the following ports should be open in the internal server firewall, and if required, also in the external firewall: 

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">22</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">SSH, SCP</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7000</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7001</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">7199</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9042</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9160</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Cassandra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">3213 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">K2View Fabric</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">9443 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 11px;">K2View Fabric (SSL)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">6379</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Redis</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">2181, 2888, 3888</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka Zookeeper</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9093, 9091 </td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">9081</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">Kafka JMX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">5124</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">K2View Fabric</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">5432</td>
<td style="width: 50%; height: 18px;">pgsql</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
