articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/01_web_services_overview.md, before:

# Web Services Overview 

Fabric data is stored internally using Logical Unit modelling. To enable the data to be accessed externally, Fabric exposes set of out-of-the-box web services to query Fabric Logical Unit instances data, as well as provides implementors an easy way to expose other required web services.

These two options are powerful as no product release is required when new web services are needed during the project lifetime.

## What Is a Fabric Web Service? 

A Fabric Web Service is either a Java function that can be exposed through the Fabric Web Service layer or a Graphit file. Graphit is a powerful low-code utility that provides a user-friendly visual interface to design a web-service layout. 

Fabric Web Services are part of the Fabric project files and once project is deployed, the web services are exposed and available to external calls. 

Fabric provides implementors methods to test and debug their web services, either by the built-in debugging capabilities at Graphit or by using Fabric Web Framework API web application (using Swagger Open API interface)

Fabric Web Services apply REST API guidelines. 



[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](/articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/03_create_a_web_service.md)

Commit message:

massive changes for web services and graphit

articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/01_web_services_overview.md, after:

# Web Services Overview 

Fabric supports three types of Web Services:

* Project's out-of-the-box built-in Web Services for querying and manipulating Logical Units, and Common tables. 
* Custom Web Services, which are developed as part of project's implementation, according to dedicated project needs.
* Product Web Services.

Fabric Web Services apply and follow REST API guidelines and standards.

Fabric provides an Open API testing utility (based on Swagger) as part of the Web Framework applications, where implementor can test web services of any type listed above.



To learn more about built-in out-of-the-box Logical Units and Common tables Web Services read [here](/articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/02_built_in_lu_ws.md).

To learn more about Fabric built-in Web Services read [here](/articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/04_built_in_fabric_ws.md).

To learn more about creating and handling project's customized project's Web Service read [here](/articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/05_custom_ws.md).



[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](/articles/15_web_services_and_graphit/02_built_in_lu_ws.md)
