articles/38_bi_integration/05_report_creation_guidelines.md, before:

# Report Creation Guidelines

### Overview

This article describes several important guidelines for creating reports with the BI application. It requires working with both the **Admin** module, and the **Designer** module of BI, and as such, can only be carried out by users with BI_ADMIN privileges.

### Creating Reports Based on Fabric LU Tables

One of the basic reports is a report based on data from a Fabric LU Instance. Follow these steps to create such report:

1. Open the **Admin** module (click on the Admin tab in the upper left) to do these tasks:

   * Create the Fabric data source and define its objects and joins, as explained step-by-step in the [Metadata Setup](03_Metadata_Setup.md) article. 
   * Create the parameter(s) to be used by the filter, as explained in the [Parameters](04_parameters.md) article.
2. Open the **Fabric Studio** and define the Interfaces with the same name as the data sources that you created in the Admin module (optional). 
3. Open the **Designer** module (click on the Designer tab in the upper left).  
4. Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger creation of a new report.
5. Select the report type. For example **Advanced Report**. 
6. Select the data objects for the report. Note the following:
   * The list of data objects presents a list of all existing data objects under all defined data sources. 
   * Once the first data object is selected, most of the objects are disabled except for those that have a join with the selected object.
   * Start the selection from the LU Root table and down to the required tables, based on the LU Schema relations. 
7. Once the data objects are selected, click the![image](images/filter_icon.PNG) icon to set the filter by IID as follows:

![image](images/filter_definition.PNG)

8. Once the filter is set, click **Okay**. 

### Creating Reports Based on Custom SQL

Sometimes the report data requires writing a complex SQL query rather then just selecting columns from several joined tables. This is supported by a Customer SQL Object screen.

Creating a report based on a custom query is similar to creating it based on Fabric LUI tables.  Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger the new report creation and then instead of selecting the data objects, click the![image](images/add_sql_icon.PNG)icon to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen:

![image](images/custom_sql_obj.PNG)

Since this SQL is executed on an LUI, it must also include a filter by LU Instance ID. For example:

~~~sql
SELECT TE.source_id, TE.target_id, tasks.be_name, task_execution.task_execution_id, 'Copied' as status
FROM (select distinct entity_id as source_id, target_entity_id as target_id
		from task_execution_link_entities
		where parent_entity_id = '' and execution_status = 'completed'
		except
	  select entity_id as source_id, target_entity_id as target_id
		from task_execution_link_entities
		where parent_entity_id = '' and execution_status <> 'completed') TE, tasks, task_execution
WHERE task_execution.task_execution_id = '@task_execution_id@'
~~~

The IID value can be provided using a parameter which is created in the **Admin** module and set either in **Admin** or programmatically via the REST API call. See more at [Reports execution guidelines](06_report_execution_guidelines.md). 

An alternative way to create a custom SQL object is via the **Admin** module as follows:

1. Open the **Admin** module.

2. Right click **Objects > Add**.

   ![image](images/custom_sql_from_admin.PNG)

3. Click **SQL** icon on the right side of the **Name** field to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen.

When a custom SQL is created in the **Admin** module, you can create a join between this object and other existing objects.

### Creating Reports Based on Fabric Commands

When you need to create a report based on the Fabric Command results, it can be done using the Custom SQL Object screen. 

Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger the new report creation and then instead of selecting the data objects, click the![image](images/add_sql_icon.PNG)icon to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen. Use the syntax as shown below:

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='<command>'
~~~

**Example of a report of Fabric command without parameters:**

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='test_connection'
~~~

**Example of a report of Fabric command with parameters:**

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='batch_list status="@status_name@";'
~~~

Where **status_name** is a session parameter.



[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](04_parameters.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](06_report_execution_guidelines.md)

Commit message:

Added 6.5.5 feature - cross-instance report

articles/38_bi_integration/05_report_creation_guidelines.md, after:

# Report Creation Guidelines

### Overview

This article describes several important guidelines for creating reports with the BI application. It requires working with both the **Admin** module, and the **Designer** module of BI, and as such, can only be carried out by users with BI_ADMIN privileges.

### Creating Reports Based on Fabric LU Tables

One of the basic reports is a report based on data from a Fabric LU Instance. Follow these steps to create such report:

1. Open the **Admin** module (click on the Admin tab in the upper left) to do these tasks:

   * Create the Fabric data source and define its objects and joins, as explained step-by-step in the [Metadata Setup](03_Metadata_Setup.md) article. 
   * Create the parameter(s) to be used by the filter, as explained in the [Parameters](04_parameters.md) article.
2. Open the **Fabric Studio** and define the Interfaces with the same name as the data sources that you created in the Admin module (optional). 
3. Open the **Designer** module (click on the Designer tab in the upper left).  
4. Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger creation of a new report.
5. Select the report type. For example **Advanced Report**. 
6. Select the data objects for the report. Note the following:
   * The list of data objects presents a list of all existing data objects under all defined data sources. 
   * Once the first data object is selected, most of the objects are disabled except for those that have a join with the selected object.
   * Start the selection from the LU Root table and down to the required tables, based on the LU Schema relations. 
7. Once the data objects are selected, click the![image](images/filter_icon.PNG) icon to set the filter by IID as follows:

![image](images/filter_definition.PNG)

8. Once the filter is set, click **Okay**. 

### Creating Reports Based on Custom SQL

Sometimes the report data requires writing a complex SQL query rather then just selecting columns from several joined tables. This is supported by a Customer SQL Object screen.

Creating a report based on a custom query is similar to creating it based on Fabric LUI tables.  Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger the new report creation and then instead of selecting the data objects, click the![image](images/add_sql_icon.PNG)icon to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen:

![image](images/custom_sql_obj.PNG)

Since this SQL is executed on an LUI, it must also include a filter by LU Instance ID. For example:

~~~sql
SELECT TE.source_id, TE.target_id, tasks.be_name, task_execution.task_execution_id, 'Copied' as status
FROM (select distinct entity_id as source_id, target_entity_id as target_id
		from task_execution_link_entities
		where parent_entity_id = '' and execution_status = 'completed'
		except
	  select entity_id as source_id, target_entity_id as target_id
		from task_execution_link_entities
		where parent_entity_id = '' and execution_status <> 'completed') TE, tasks, task_execution
WHERE task_execution.task_execution_id = '@task_execution_id@'
~~~

The IID value can be provided using a parameter which is created in the **Admin** module and set either in **Admin** or programmatically via the REST API call. See more at [Reports execution guidelines](06_report_execution_guidelines.md). 

An alternative way to create a custom SQL object is via the **Admin** module as follows:

1. Open the **Admin** module.

2. Right click **Objects > Add**.

   ![image](images/custom_sql_from_admin.PNG)

3. Click **SQL** icon on the right side of the **Name** field to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen.

When a custom SQL is created in the **Admin** module, you can create a join between this object and other existing objects.

### Creating Reports Based on Fabric Commands

When you need to create a report based on the Fabric Command results, it can be done using the Custom SQL Object screen. 

Click the ![image](images/create_icon.PNG) icon to trigger the new report creation and then instead of selecting the data objects, click the![image](images/add_sql_icon.PNG)icon to write the custom query using the Custom SQL Object screen. Use the syntax as shown below:

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='<command>'
~~~

**Example of a report of Fabric command without parameters:**

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='test_connection'
~~~

**Example of a report of Fabric command with parameters:**

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='batch_list status="@status_name@";'
~~~

Where **status_name** is a session parameter.

### Creating Cross-Instance Reports Based on Fabric

Starting V6.5.5, you can create cross-instance reports based on Fabric by utilizing the [SEARCH](/articles/18_fabric_cdc/cdc_consumers/search/05_search_command.md) command. 

The syntax is:

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='<search command syntax>'
~~~

**Examples of a report based on SEARCH command:**

The following Custom SQL enables creating a report of all the states of Customer's addresses:

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='search lutype=Customer tables=ADDRESS '{"query": {"query_string":{ "fields": ["STATE"], "query": "*"}}}';'
~~~

The following Custom SQL enables creating a report of Customer's addresses that belong to a specific state, providing the state name by a STATE session parameter:

~~~sql
select * from k2_fabric_command_sql where command='search lutype=Customer tables=ADDRESS '{"query": {"query_string":{ "fields": ["STATE"], "query": "@STATE@"}}}';'
~~~

Note that an installation of Elasticsearch is required for using a SEARCH command. 

[Click to get more information about the SEARCH use cases and implementation steps](/articles/18_fabric_cdc/cdc_consumers/search/01_search_overview_and_use_cases.md).

[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](04_parameters.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](06_report_execution_guidelines.md)
