articles/03_logical_units/16_LU_schema_group_and_ungroup_tables.md, before:

# Group and Ungroup LU Tables

An LU schema may include a large number of [tables](/articles/06_LU_tables/01_LU_tables_overview.md). To make the structure of the table schema clearer, group or ungroup list of tables. 

For example, see below a group of tables marked with a title and a different color:

<studio>

![image](images/1.7_pic_2_grouped_paragpraph.png)

### How Can I Group LU Tables?
1. Select the tables to be grouped.
1. Click the **Group SubGraph** icon in the **Logical Unit** toolbar.
1. Click the **Grouped SubGraph** and edit the name of the **Group**.

### How Can I Ungroup LU Tables? 
Click the **Grouped SubGraph** and click the **Ungroup SubGraph** icon.

</studio>

<web>

### How Can I Group LU Tables?

1. Select the tables to be grouped. 
2. Click the <img src="images/web/group.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit** toolbar.
3. Click the group's title and edit the name.

![image](images/web/1_web_lu_overview.PNG)

### How Can I Ungroup LU Tables? 

#### Remove tables from a group

When you wish to remove specific table/s from a group, while others will remain in the group, do the following:

1. Select one or more tables to be removed from the group.
2. Click the <img src="images/web/ungroup.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit Schema** toolbar.
3. When all the tables are removed from the group, the group is deleted.

#### Ungroup a group

When you wish to remove a group - ungroup all tables from a group - do the following:

1. Select the group. You will see a blue border around it.
2. Click the <img src="images/web/ungroup.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit Schema**  toolbar.

 </web>

[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](/articles/03_logical_units/15_LU_schema_edit_reference_tab.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](/articles/03_logical_units/17_LU_schema_change_root_table.md)

Commit message:

TW update: a few changes done

articles/03_logical_units/16_LU_schema_group_and_ungroup_tables.md, after:

# Group and Ungroup LU Tables

An LU schema may include a large number of [tables](/articles/06_LU_tables/01_LU_tables_overview.md). To make the structure of the table schema clearer, group or ungroup list of tables. 

I.e. below is a group of tables marked with a title and a different color:

<studio>

![image](images/1.7_pic_2_grouped_paragpraph.png)

### How Can I Group LU Tables?
1. Select the tables to be grouped.
2. Click the **Group SubGraph** icon in the **Logical Unit** toolbar.
3. Click the **Grouped SubGraph** and edit the name of the **Group**.

### How Can I Ungroup LU Tables? 
Click the **Grouped SubGraph** and click the **Ungroup SubGraph** icon.

</studio>

<web>

### How Can I Group LU Tables?

1. Select the tables to be grouped. 
2. Click on the <img src="images/web/group.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit** toolbar.
3. Click on the group's title and edit the name.

![image](images/web/1_web_lu_overview.PNG)

### How Can I Ungroup LU Tables? 

#### Remove tables from a group

When you wish to remove a specific table/s from a group, whereas other table/s remain in the group, do the following:

1. Select one or more tables to be removed from the group.
2. Click the <img src="images/web/ungroup.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit Schema** toolbar.
3. The group is deleted following removal of all tables from it.

#### Ungroup a group

When you wish to remove a group - ungroup all tables from it. The following steps should be done​:​

1. Select the group. You will see a blue border line around it.
2. Click on the <img src="images/web/ungroup.PNG" style="zoom:67%;" /> icon in the **Logical Unit Schema** toolbar.

 </web>

[![Previous](/articles/images/Previous.png)](/articles/03_logical_units/15_LU_schema_edit_reference_tab.md)[<img align="right" width="60" height="54" src="/articles/images/Next.png">](/articles/03_logical_units/17_LU_schema_change_root_table.md)
